# GRIP_Exploratory_data_analysis_retail

## TASK 3 - EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS - RETAIL

We have been provided with a superstore dataset and as a Business Manager, the goal is to find weak areas from where we can derive more profit.
We must look for other relevant insights as well.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## INSIGHTS

Overall sales is currently at 2.30M.
Overall profit is currently at 286.40K.

### SALES INSIGHT

* Highest Sales were generated by Technology category.
* In each category there were certain products which were sold the most. Those are mentioned below
   * Technology Category - Phone
   * Office Supplies     - Storage
   * Furniture           - Chairs
* The city with the highest number of sales is Akron.
* More sales were generated by  Standard class Ship Mode as many quantities were shipped by this mode.


### PROFIT INSIGHT

* Highest Profit was generated by Technology category.
* In each category there were certain products which earned more profit. Those are:
  * Technology Category - Copiers
  * Office Supplies - Paper
  * Furniture - Chairs
* City with the highest profit is Arlington
* Again Standard Class generates more profit.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* After individual analysis, we can draw this insight that even though Phones made the highest sales from the technology category, it was the Copiers sub-category that generated more profit.
* Similarly, from the Office Supplies category, Storage had the maximum sales but still Paper sub category generated maximum profit.
* Even though the Furniture category had a healthy sale, the profit generated by it was the least and the bar chart shows that 3 of its sub categories have profit bar in negative.
* Weakest section is the Furniture category and hence we need to make strategies to boost profit from this category considering it has a healthy value in the market.
* Consumer segment has purchased a significant number of furnitures and hence we can target that segment and for benefits in this category. 
* Most bought sub category in the furniture category are chairs and bookcases. Thus we can launch more offers to get benefitted from them.
* City Amarillo has the highest amount of sales and profit for the Furniture category. Hence we can target Consumers from that particular city for better results.
* Since Office Supplies has a healhty game in the profit category, increasing it's sales would be an added advantage. Specially in Akron City. Both storage and paper sub category can be targeted.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  



